[8.2] Adds Blocklist API documentation (#1880)
elastic/security-docs: docs/management/api/blocklist-api.asciidoc

:endpoint-artifact-list-id:                     endpoint_blocklists
:endpoint-artifact-name:                        blocklist entries
:endpoint-artifact-name-single:                 blocklist entry
:endpoint-artifact-name-sentence-start:         Blocklist entries

> :endpoint-artifact-name-single-sentence-start:  Blocklist entry

Author: There was a discussion about it, and finally we decided to use the word `entry` to define if it's plural or not since a Blocklist means a list of items (plural). I think @caitlinbetz can give use a better context of this.

> :endpoint-artifact-name-single-sentence-start:  Blocklist entry

Reviewer: The page title should be `Blocklist` to be consistent with the way it's displayed in the UI.  And yes, I remember settling on "entry" as a means to make it plural or not.

> :endpoint-artifact-name-single-sentence-start:  Blocklist entry

Author: FYI, I've changed the page title: https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/1880/commits/c45fb0549c2203d323a166d27d78fc88bd54c67c

==== Create {endpoint-artifact-name} container

`POST <kibana host>:<port>/api/exception_lists`

===== Request body

A JSON object containing the fields listed below. The request must have the following:

include::_exceptions-api-reusable-content.asciidoc[tags=endpoint-exceptions-request-payload-list-id-and-namespace-requirements]
- The `type` value must be `endpoint`.

include::_exceptions-api-reusable-content.asciidoc[tags=create-exception-container-request-body]

===== Example request

[source,console,subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------------
POST api/exception_lists
{
  "description": "Endpoint Security Blocklists List",
  "name": "Endpoint Security Blocklists List",
  "list_id": "{endpoint-artifact-list-id}",
  "type": "endpoint_blocklists",
  "namespace_type": "agnostic"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

===== Response code

`200`::
    Indicates a successful call.

===== Response payload

[source,json,subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------------

> {
>   "_tags": [],
>   "created_at": "2020-07-13T09:33:46.187Z",
>   "created_by": "elastic",
>   "description": "Endpoint Security Blocklists List",
>   "name": "Endpoint Security Blocklists List",
>   "list_id": "{endpoint-artifact-list-id}",
>   "type": "endpoint_blocklists",
>   "namespace_type": "agnostic",
>   "id": "f320c070-c4eb-11ea-80bb-11861bae2798",
>   "tags": [],
>   "tie_breaker_id": "2c08d5a5-2ecc-4d5a-acfb-0a367f25b3f3",
>   "updated_at": "2020-07-13T09:33:46.359Z",
>   "updated_by": "elastic"
> }

Reviewer 2: There are some missing response bits here (`immutable`, `os_types`, `_version`, `version`), I notice they need to update in all other artifacts as well except for in Host Isolation Exceptions. Also, the `_tags` should be removed. Only `tags` are returned in the response, and keys should be sorted in alphabetically ascending order.

```suggestion
{
 "_version": "WzcsMV0=",
  "created_at": "2020-07-13T09:33:46.187Z",
  "created_by": "elastic",
  "description": "Endpoint Security Blocklists List",
  "id": "f320c070-c4eb-11ea-80bb-11861bae2798",
  "immutable": false,
  "list_id": "{endpoint-artifact-list-id}",
  "name": "Endpoint Security Blocklists List",
  "namespace_type": "agnostic",
  "os_types": [],
  "tags": [],
  "tie_breaker_id": "2c08d5a5-2ecc-4d5a-acfb-0a367f25b3f3",
  "type": "endpoint_blocklists",
  "updated_at": "2020-07-13T09:33:46.359Z",
  "updated_by": "elastic",
  "version": 1
}
```

      "created_by": "elastic",
      "description": "These applications must be blocked",
      "entries": [
        {
            "field": "file.path",
            "value": [
                "c:/path/to/file.exe",
                "c:/path/to/file2.exe"
                "c:/path/to/file3.exe"
            ],
            "type": "match_any",
            "operator": "included"
        }
      ],
      "id": "17ba1bf0-997c-11ec-b212-9f4ed8b5942f",
      "item_id": "29f480e6-6d34-4bc7-9038-f809f11cb679",
      "list_id": "{endpoint-artifact-list-id}",
      "name": "ABC blocklist",
      "namespace_type": "agnostic",
      "os_types": [
        "windows"
      ],
      "tags": [
        "policy:all"
      ],
      "tie_breaker_id": "c6bedf22-2292-4d4a-8eb8-e29a50b5b519",
      "type": "simple",
      "updated_at": "2022-03-01T17:21:07.273Z",
      "updated_by": "elastic"
    }
  ],
  "page": 1,
  "per_page": 10,
  "total": 1
}
--------------------------------------------------

include::_exceptions-api-reusable-content.asciidoc[tag=endpoint-exceptions-value-types-info-section]

[#exception-{endpoint-artifact-api-doc-name}-item-entry-schema]
===== `entry` object schema

> Endpoint {endpoint-artifact-name} allow for at most 3 conditions to be defined. No duplicates are allowed. The following entries are supported by {endpoint-artifact-name}:

Author: Yes, this one:
```
====== Process hashes
....
====== Process file path
...
====== Process signature
...
```

Is this what you meant? Is there a better way to display it with markdown? Thanks 🙂

====== Process hashes

Process hashes are supported by all xref:exception-{endpoint-artifact-api-doc-name}-item-os-types[OS types]. A hash entry has the following structure:

> [source,json]

Reviewer 3: This recommendation applies to all sections beneath this one that follow a similar format.

* `value` : An array of hash values associated with the `field`.
* `type` : Must be `match_any`.

> * `operator` : Must be `included`.

Author: Very good catch! Thanks for pointing this out!

    "value": [
        "741462ab431a22233C787BAAB9B653C7"
    ],
    "type": "match_any",
    "operator": "included"
}
-----------------------------

* `field` : The following values are supported: `process.hash.md5`, `process.hash.sha1` or `process.hash.sha256`.
* `value` : An array of hash values associated with the `field`.
* `type` : Must be `match_any`.
* `operator` : Must be `included`.

====== Process file path

Process file paths are supported by all xref:exception-{endpoint-artifact-api-doc-name}-item-os-types[OS types]. A file path entry has the following structure:

[source,json]
-----------------------------
{
  "field": "file.path",
  "value": "c:/path/to/file.exe",
  "type": "match_any",
  "operator": "included"
}
-----------------------------

* `field` : Must be `file.path`.
* `value` : An array of file paths to match on.

> * `type` : "match_any"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `type` : Must be `match_any`.
```

* `operator` : Must be `included`.

====== Process signature

> Process signature is supported only for Windows xref:exception-{endpoint-artifact-api-doc-name}-item-os-types[OS type]. A signature entry has the following structure:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Process signature is supported for Windows xref:exception-{endpoint-artifact-api-doc-name}-item-os-types[OS type] only. A signature entry has the following structure:
```

* `field` : Must be set to `process.Ext.code_signature`.
* `type` : Must be set to `nested`.
* `entries`: An array with 1 `entry` item.
* `entries[0]` : The entry defining the signature to be matched upon:
** `field`: Must be set to `subject_name`.
** `value` : An array of signature names to match on.
** `type` : Must be set to `match_any`.
** `operator` : Must be set to `included`.

[source,json]
-----------------------------
{
    "field": "file.Ext.code_signature",
    "entries": [
        {
            "field": "subject_name",
            "value": [
                "test1",
                "test2"
            ],
            "type": "match_any",
            "operator": "included"
        }
    ],
    "type": "nested"
}
-----------------------------

====== Examples for a Windows {endpoint-artifact-name-single}. 

> Only one entry item is allowed per blocklist item (`file.path`, `file.hash.*` or `file.Ext.code_signature`). The exception is `file.hash.*`, which allows an entry for each of the allowed hash types.

Author: Is the comma after `sha1,` needed? Also, there is a missing empty space after the `md5,` right? Updating it will allow me to commit your suggestions, thanks 🙂

> Only one entry item is allowed per blocklist item (`file.path`, `file.hash.*` or `file.Ext.code_signature`). The exception is `file.hash.*`, which allows an entry for each of the allowed hash types.

Reviewer 2: updated the missing space after md5. Yeah, the comma is needed after sha1.

> Only one entry item is allowed per blocklist item (`file.path`, `file.hash.*` or `file.Ext.code_signature`). The exception is `file.hash.*`, which allows an entry for each of the allowed hash types.

Author: Would like to know @nastasha-solomon thoughts on this as she did also a review on this specific sentence 🙂

> Only one entry item is allowed per blocklist item (`file.path`, `file.hash.*` or `file.Ext.code_signature`). The exception is `file.hash.*`, which allows an entry for each of the allowed hash types.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the check @ashokaditya and for the tag @dasansol92 ! I worked with @benironside to make some minor adjustments. Hopefully they're helpful!

```suggestion
Only one entry of `file.path`, `file.hash.*` or `file.Ext.code_signature` is allowed per blocklist item. Each entry can have one or more values. You can also add a list of hashes for each allowed hash type (`md5`, `sha1`, or `sha256`) to the `file.hash.*` entry.
```

> Only one entry item is allowed for each blocklist item (`file.path`, `file.hash.*` or `file.Ext.code_signature`) except for `file.hash.*` where we allow an entry for each allowed hash types.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Only one entry item is allowed per blocklist item (`file.path`, `file.hash.*` or `file.Ext.code_signature`). The exception is `file.hash.*`, which allows an entry for each of the allowed hash types.
```

:endpoint-artifact-list-id:                     endpoint_blocklists
:endpoint-artifact-name:                        blocklist entries
:endpoint-artifact-name-single:                 blocklist entry
:endpoint-artifact-name-sentence-start:         Blocklist entries
:endpoint-artifact-name-single-sentence-start:  Blocklist entry
:endpoint-artifact-api-doc-name:                blocklist
:endpoint-artifact-page-title:                  Blocklist
[[blocklist-api]]
=== {endpoint-artifact-page-title}

> Create, retrieve, update, and delete endpoint <<blocklist>> entries with the <<exceptions-api-overview>>. Endpoint {endpoint-artifact-name} are managed using a static container id (`list_id`) of `pass:a[{endpoint-artifact-list-id}]`, which must be created prior to adding the {endpoint-artifact-name}. Access to these APIs requires that a user has authorization to manage endpoints.

Reviewer: @nastasha-solomon @joepeeples I added in the link as suggested by the comment above.  Let me know if it's good!

-----------------------------
{
  "field": "file.path",
  "value": "c:/path/to/file.exe",
  "type": "match_any",
  "operator": "included"
}
-----------------------------

====== Process signature

Process signature is supported for Windows xref:exception-{endpoint-artifact-api-doc-name}-item-os-types[OS type] only. A signature entry has the following structure:

* `field` : Must be set to `process.Ext.code_signature`.
* `type` : Must be set to `nested`.
* `entries`: An array with 1 `entry` item.
* `entries[0]` : The entry defining the signature to be matched upon:
** `field`: Must be set to `subject_name`.
** `value` : An array of signature names to match on.
** `type` : Must be set to `match_any`.
** `operator` : Must be set to `included`.

[source,json]
-----------------------------
{
    "field": "file.Ext.code_signature",
    "entries": [
        {
            "field": "subject_name",
            "value": [
                "test1",
                "test2"
            ],
            "type": "match_any",
            "operator": "included"
        }
    ],
    "type": "nested"
}
-----------------------------

====== Examples for a Windows {endpoint-artifact-name-single}. 

> Only one entry of `file.path` or `file.Ext.code_signature` is allowed per blocklist item. The `file.hash.*`entry is also supported and accepts up to three values. The allowed hash types for `file.hash.*` are `md5`, `sha1`, or `sha256`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Only one entry of `file.path` or `file.Ext.code_signature` is allowed per blocklist item. The `file.hash.*` entry is also supported and accepts up to three values. The allowed hash types for `file.hash.*` are `md5`, `sha1`, or `sha256`.
```

Reviewer 3: Just missing a space. Otherwise, looks good - thanks @kevinlog!

Reviewer: @nastasha-solomon fixed the typo.
